GNOME Web (codename: Epiphany) is a GNOME web browser based on
[the WebKit rendering engine](https://webkit.org/). The codename means "a
usually sudden manifestation or perception of the essential nature or meaning of
something" ([Merriam-Webster](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/epiphany)).

# Manifesto

A web browser is more than an application: it is a way of thinking, a way of
seeing the world. Epiphany's principles are simplicity, standards compliance,
and software freedom.

## Simplicity

Feature bloat and user interface clutter is evil.

Epiphany aims to present the simplest interface possible for a browser. Simple
does not necessarily mean less-powerful. The commonly-used browsers of today are
too big, buggy, and bloated. Epiphany is a small browser designed for the web:
not for mail, newsgroups, file management, instant messaging, or coffeemaking.
The UNIX philosophy is to design small tools that do one thing and do it well.

## Standards Compliance

The introduction of nonstandard features in browsers could make it difficult
or impossible to use alternative products like Epiphany if developers embrace
them. Alternative standards-complying browsers might not be able to fully access
websites making use of these features. The success of nonstandard features can
ultimately lead one browser to dominate the market.

Standards compliance ensures the freedom of choice. Epiphany aims to achieve
this.

## Software Freedom

Epiphany is not just free of cost; more importantly, the source code is made
available to you under a license that [respects your freedom](https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/philosophy.html).

Just as GNOME exists to oppose proprietary desktop software, Epiphany opposes
the dominance of the web by proprietary software browsers. Today's chief
offender is Google Chrome, a browser that purports to be open source, yet
actually includes several proprietary components. In contrast, Epiphany is fully
free software.

# Human Interface Guidelines

Epiphany follows the [GNOME Human Interface Guidelines](https://developer.gnome.org/hig/stable/).
Unless there are very serious reasons to make an exception, not following the
guidelines will be considered a bug.

## GNOME Integration

Epiphany's main goal is to be integrated with GNOME, as well as similar
desktops. We don't aim to make Epiphany usable outside a GNOME environment.

## Preferences

We are cautious about adding new preferences. Preferences can be added when they
make sense, but they should always be carefully-considered. We know from
experience that [preferences come with a cost](https://ometer.com/preferences.html).

## Target Audience

We target nontechnical users by design. This happens to be 90% of the user
population. Technical details should not exposed in the interface.

We target web users, not web developers. A few geek-oriented feautures, like the
web inspector, are welcome so long as they are non-obtrusive.

# Contact Us

The recommended way to contact us is via the Epiphany mailing list
<epiphany-list@gnome.org>.